How does uploading data work now?
The thing is graphql only works with json data,
you can find a couple of articles, third party packages that help you with getting data through graphql
but in the end, one of the cleanest solutions is to use a classic endpoint like a rest endpoint where
you send your image to and then let that endpoint store the image and return the path to the image and
then send another request with that path to the image and your other data to your graphql
endpoint and this is the solution I'll implement here. I'll implement it in app.js
because you could outsource this into a separate file
but it'll be the only other route we add here and there,
I'll register a new route on my app for incoming put requests because I plan to send that image with a
put request to slash
let's say post image,
you can name this path however you want.
There we have our traditional middleware function,
I hope you still know that even though we haven't used it in the last lectures and there I'll first
of all check if we don't have a file.
Now how can I check that?
Well I still have multer in place,
we added that in the rest API module and multer is the package which takes our multipart form data
requests and extracts a file and stores it in the image folder and I still have that in place.
So all my files still will be extracted and multer then populates the file object with information
about the extracted file.
Now if this is not set, then I'll just return a response here with a status of 200 and a message where
I say no file provided. You could set an error code here
but actually this scenario is fine for me as you will see when we later edit a post because there we
might or might not add a new image,
maybe we stick to the old one,
maybe we did choose a new one
and then this is one way of handling both cases.
If we do have a request file, we can get some data from it though
and of course we want a clear and existing image if there is one. For that, I'll create a new function
here
or actually I have that function in the feed.js
controller already, I can copy that from there, the clear image function at the bottom of the feed.js
file.
I'll move that into app.js,
this depends on the fs package, on the path package, the path module, path is already imported,
now I'll also import fs here and now with that all imported,
back in our put request here,
I'll check for the existence of a body field which is named old path which simply means that an old
path was passed with the incoming request in which case I want to clear my old image and I'll pass in
the old path because then we added a new image.
We can be certain about that
after this if check and then we should also have an old path which we delete so that we don't keep the
old image and the new image,
instead we delete the old image here and then only keep the new image which was stored by multer. And
then at the end here, I will return a response
with a status code of 201 and that differentiates it from this response
and here I will add some json data, let's say a message, file stored
but more importantly, I'll add a file path or however you want to name it which is request file path
and this is the path where multer stored the image
and this is the path we can then use in the frontend. With this added on the backend,
we can now work on the frontend to use this rest API endpoint and this also shows you that you can
use rest and graphql concepts together,
it's not like a hard decision you have to make,
you can use the best for a given problem.
So now we can use that on the frontend and we want to use it in this finish edit handler,
so in the feed.js file of the react app, in the finish edit handler, there
I'm preparing some form data and this form data does not get a title and content anymore but it
would still get the image.
Additionally though, I also want to check if we are in edit mode,
so if this state edit post if that is true and then I will append the old path field which is this state
edit post which is the post we're currently editing, image path.
This is a field we're setting when we're loading all posts, there when we load all posts,
we also set the image path and this is a field which we therefore also should set
when we edit our posts. So there when I create a new post,
I should also add image path here and get that from create post, that should be my image
url which I get there and that is also something I need to request therefore, image url is something
I do request here so I do have it available.
So I'm setting this image path, I have that available,
this will be the path of the
well the old image on the server and now with that, I have my form data setup.
Now before I send my graphql query,
I will therefore send another query to http localhost 8080
but there to /postimage,
so to this new endpoint I defined and the method here will be put because on my backend here, I simply
defined this to handle put requests, you could of course also argue to use post but since I'll replace
the old image, put makes a lot of sense,
I'll then add my headers.
Now regarding authorization here, we want to make sure that our auth middleware actually runs first on
the server so that we know if the user is authenticated
and if isAuth is false, then we can certainly throw a new error here, not authenticated so that we protect
this route as well.
So now on the frontend, we need to add our authorization header and now we'll just copy the headers
from my graphql request because the headers actually are the same and the body is now here,
my form data. This fetch request will be made first,
then after it has been made, I'll get back a response, some response data
where I'll parse the body and thereafter I'll have my file response data,
you can name this however you want
and in here, I now can extract the image url by accessing file response data and there, file path
because in my endpoint, I am setting this file path key here and I can now use that in the graphql
query. So now let me grab all that graphql
code here, this code up to the then block, cut it and move it into this then block and then remove
this semi-colon and chain this then block
here, I just need to return this fetch call so that the next then block refers to the result of this fetch
block here.
So now I do have my image url,
now I just need to pass it here for my graphql query image
url and now we should have a setup where we are able for now to at least create new posts,
editing is something we'll work on later.
So let's try that out,
let's try creating a new post
and first of all on the server, I'll clear all the images in the images folder so that we can tell whether
this works or not,
so back here I need to login again,
let's quickly do that
and let's create a new duck, a new post but it can be a duck, a duck with an image
hopefully. Let's choose our duck.jpg,
this is a lovely duck again, accept and I get this error regarding payload too large and
this is actually coming from an error on my side that fetch request here where I send the post image, I
should not set the content type to application json
otherwise it will be parsed as json data and that does not work for my binary data here.
So after removing this header,
let's try this again with another duck here,
add that image,
so lovely, accept this and now it uploads this first and we can prove that by looking into images,
here is our duck image.
So this works and it still creates that post which we can see here.
Next challenge is to make sure that we can click that view button and view the detail page for one post
and this again is a challenge for you. Implement something, some schema or a query in the schema of your
graphql API and add a resolver that takes the ID of a post and loads that post.
You can then work on the frontend too if you feel bold
otherwise focus on the backend. We'll do it together in the next lecture.